# What is Developer Relations (DevRel)?

Tracing the origin of Developer Relations, there is no generally acceptable definition as everyone tries to define it with relative terms.

Now, let's make an attempt to give a definition that has a potential to satisfy the needs of any DevRel team.

DevRel is the interaction among developers to drive and achieve individual and organizational interests through experience and demonstration.

This definition claims that experience and demonstration are necessary to achieve or forfeit business, users and team's goals.

Experience has to do with the value or benefit users, organizations and other parties gain out of their interactions which could be through demonstration in form of contents, conferences, demo and any other mediums. 

In short, Developer Relations revolves around demonstrations in different forms and their attendant experience.

For the sake of practical application, DevRel is about Development, Education ( with marketing and selling sense) and Customer care/support. Oh, sorry! I have forgotten we all hate the word "selling and marketing". Anyway, hear me out.

Marketing or selling is not inherently bad, it is the snake oil sellers that make it seem so. Hating marketing or selling is just like hating policing and the police just because thieves use guns. Is that reasonable?

Even if you only educate and form relationships, understanding ethical marketing and selling will help you identify the right audience, shape products to users' tastes, make and distribute content to them and lead them to buy your products.

I strongly believe DevRel is partly about making developers feel the magic in your products. If you and your target audience can't feel the magic (the core problem it solves) while using your products, you still have a lot to do. 

And that is the job of DevRel? 

They educate stakeholders and create documentation, application and content that make the magic felt so that you won’t need to trick people to buy your products.
