## How to align business goals with DevRel

“We are all so desperate to be understood, we forget to be understanding.” – Beau Taplin

DevRel people tend to struggle with business objectives because they mostly believe that impact is more important than pushing hard to sell things to the developer communities while business people favour selling at all costs. Then, what is the way forward?

Aligning business goals with DevRel is basically built on speaking each other’s languages. 

It is easier to flow with business people if DevRel objectives show clear paths to drive measurable adoption just like how it will be easier for business people to make DevRel people more effective if they can clearly demonstrate what they expect with the language developers understand – Impacts and Relationships.

Listen, business people have a strong bias towards measurement and you will rarely get them on your side if you can’t measure impacts and relationships as a member of DevRel. 

Likewise, forcing developers to ignore impacts and relationships to sell at all costs is a no-go area. Then what is the way forward?

Here is it: DevRel should focus on impacts and relationships but make impacts and relationships measurable. Did you just say that is impossible? Well, hear me out because I am about to show you how to do so.

### Measuring the impact of going to conferences

DevRel people tend to share swags like stickers, shirts, hoodies and some others at conferences as a way to promote their brands. That is amazing but it will be better if we make most of these things actionable so that we can measure significant actions in the end. 

First of all, if you have to share shirts or hoodies at a conference when you’re just getting started, you should only give them to the authorities in your niche or related niches and take pictures with them in your company’s shirt (you don’t need to ask them to put on the shirts you give them to avoid being promotional) and share it on social media later. 

The authorities have built trust, credibility, and authority and have a lot of followers. Putting on your shirts means, they subtly promote your business to their audience that is also your audience. 

The next thing is about the stickers companies usually share at conferences. Instead of just sharing stickers, you can give them a ticket or stickers that are also tickets, and they can use them to claim special services on your platform. 

You can give a ticket that contains an inviting title and a URL to get a well crafted Resume to apply for their next job or a tutorial on how to interview successfully in the industry. 

It could be anything, just make sure it is relevant to all parties involved and they have to come to your platform to redeem it.

This shouldn’t be promotional, it should be helpful and educational.

Now, you can:

measure the number of authorities you give things to and how many of them share it. 

You can measure the number of people you give you stickers, tickets, learning material, and templates and how many of them visit you and drop their emails or carry out the actions you want.

### Measuring the impact of creating content

Even when you create tutorials (video or article) for SEO or to educate the communities about your products and offerings, you can still include the kind of gifts we discussed under measuring the impact of going to conferences as an incentive to make people act. Thereby we can also measure the impact of those who take action.

### Measuring impacts of engaging developer communities

It is now possible to measure almost all DevRel activities within the developer communities with the kind of actionable gifts we have designed. Just keep sharing them wherever you go and bring them back to your company. 

To make any event, hackathon, content creation or whatever measurable, make them actionable and then, we can measure the action. In short, to make anything measurable, you need to introduce quantifiable things or ideas so that we can have something to measure.

Yeah, we have made attending conferences more actionable to appeal to business people. Smart, right?

“All Birds find shelter during a rain. But Eagle avoids rain by flying above the Clouds. Problems are common, but attitude makes the difference” -- APJ Abdul Kalam.

## More thought on creating swags to engage developers

Swags are mostly meant to promote a company's brand, so they’re mostly objects with the company's logo. This way of sharing swags creates incomplete awareness for your products as far as I am concerned. Awareness is only complete not when your audience knows you exist but when they also know you’re important.

To achieve this level of awareness, my proposition here is that swags should be produced for other purposes than to promote your brand; they should also be use to educate, encourage networking and induce user acquisition. This approach is interesting as it makes gathering metrics easier in DevRel. 

Let me give you some insights:

*Credits:* Create credit tickets or cards that give your audience some preferential treatments they can enjoy by visiting your platform. If you use this appropriately, you can acquire users and still have something to measure. 

*Swags:* Swags should not only have logos, they can also have the title of a tutorial and a url to check it out. Then you can decide what to do with them when they visit you.

*Networkers:* This is kind of content or swag that is meant to encourage networking at a conference, online or somewhere else. One way or another, you have to make sure they bring people back to you. For example, I think this write-up is designed for that purpose – to basically network with DevRel people in the industry.

*Educators:* This is the swag that is purposefully designed to educate people about any subject. It is effective for business if it brings people to learn on your platform. Just make sure your topics are of great relevance and importance to them.

*Plugins/add-ons/packages:* This is a kind of swag that is designed purposefully to share links to some useful packages related to your niche and it can even be the packages your company creates.

*Software/Applications:* This swag is meant to present some specific audience with some useful applications they may not know about but are very useful to help them be productive.