## How to measure success in DevRel

"One measurement is worth a thousand expert opinions."
– Donald Sutherland

Measuring success in DevRel is very important for the sake of business. Business executives need something to measure to have insights about the department. Since DevRel and the Sales teams have to work together to drive revenue, we need to clarify or define what success is for both departments.

Obviously, success for sales teams is well defined – revenue determines their success, but DevRel teams also contribute to the revenue generated as they bring in developers and tweak products regularly to ensure developers want and are willing to pay for it before the salespeople convert them to paid clients.  

That description shows DevRel and the Sales team are working together to drive revenue but it is hard to see how DevRel contributes to sales because it is not obvious. 

But without the awareness DevRel creates which eventually generates traffic, there will be no one to convert, so DevRel teams are very important. The question now is, how will I measure success in DevRel?  

As getting people to use a piece of software and retaining them requires education, trust and reliability, it is important for DevRel teams to focus on impact but it is hard to report impacts to business executives so you have to make impacts measurable.

### How to measure impacts?

It is hard to measure impacts if we don’t know what it is. So, impact according to the Oxford dictionary, is “the powerful effect that something has on somebody/something” and by a powerful effect, we mean an effect that makes your targets act the way you desire or predetermined.

Any effect has corresponding reactions so the impact can be measured by measuring the reactions it generates now and later.  

The impact you create may generate desired or predetermined results now but makes your company struggle later for some reasons. This is why you need to always create content that creates an impact that generates desired results both now and in the future. Using some gimmicks may get you, followers, quickly but can you retain them? If you do, can they yield revenue for your company? 

Also, the quality of your audience is important to determine the quality of impact you have. Dealing with beginners is easier than dealing with experienced developers. You can easily use any selling gimmicks on beginners because they don’t know left from right. 

However, professionals have to see you as an expert to get them to trust and rely on you and that is not easy.

For these reasons, it is good to tag your content, distribution channels and others with “experts, beginners, intermediates and all” to have intended impacts. Create the right content for the right audience and make them feel the magic in your products. Then, you can measure their interaction with your products.

In short, to have unexpected but positive impacts or intended impacts, you must solve expected problems or make current solutions unexpectedly better, if not, you might end up having negative impacts and that will affect what you measure.


### Stages of impact


Awareness is the first stage of impact developer relations are meant to achieve and it is very important to DevRel success. Awareness must be created for your products or services before they can have any powerful effect on anyone whatsoever. It is also essential to make sure the awareness is impactful, that is, it has a powerful effect on your audience.

By a powerful effect, I mean an effect that makes them act the way you desire or predetermined.

Awareness is only complete when it generates inbound and outbound impact or effect, that is your audience realises your offer is important. In DevRel, awareness could be generated with articles, talks, videos, presentations, hackathons, swags and many others. 

Therefore, whatever medium is used to generate awareness must have three sections – a heading that elicits curiosity, a body that solves relevant expected problems or make current solutions better unexpectedly and a trigger that takes them to the next stage of impact.

For example, a talk at an event to generate awareness should fulfil all the purposes above. The swags shared should also do the same. Until your awareness fulfils all of these requirements, it is not complete. It should be noted that awareness may start today and be completed next year or at any point in time.

So to measure awareness we have to use something I call “Both sides of the Pareto principle”. The first side of this principle states that approximately 20% of the people that are aware of your products take inbound actions and 20% of those who take inbound actions will take outbound actions. The first side is about the people who took your predetermined actions.

The second side of the principle states approximately 80% of those who are aware of your products and know it is important are either distracted, occupied, acting on biases,  don’t need or don’t consider your content or products good enough yet. 

The second side is about the people who will take retrogressive or precautionary reactions though they are aware of your products or services. Also, people that know your products exist but don’t know it is important are equal to 5 times those who know it exists and important.

They represent the percentage of the audience you’re yet to get their attention and you can get their attention by varying your operation in all ramifications.  I mean you should vary your styles, contents, distribution channels and every other. 

Furthermore, you can calculate the total number of those who are aware of your brands or products in two ways:

Know you exist and are important = Number of reactions (excluding view, reach and click) times 5.

Know you exist but don’t know you’re important = Number of those who know you exist and are important times 5 ( total number view * 5 )

Let’s use the image below as an example:


.

In this case, “following” is the major action, so to calculate the level of awareness Mark had to get those followers; we will do 9,467 * 5 = 47,335. That means 47,335 people know that Mark exists and is important but 47,335 * 5 = 236,675 are now aware he exists though don't know he is important. Now, the total awareness generated is equal to  47,335 + 236,675.

*Acquisition* (inbound and outbound action) — This refers to getting some audience. It is all about the audience you’re able to get from the awareness you generate. 

For example, those who consume your content and take actions like subscribing, and  sharing and those who take the next action like filling a form (outbound action ). The acquisition is the second stage of impact where you need solid reasons to make the audience take your predetermined reactions.

To measure acquisition, you have to measure the predetermined reactions with the first side of the Pareto principle. The first side of this principle states that approximately 20% of the people that are aware of your products take inbound actions and 20% of those who take inbound actions will take outbound actions. The first side is about the people who take your predetermined and relevant reactions. 

And those who are yet to take the predetermined reactions, are either taking retrogressive or precautionary reactions. So, your purpose is to keep optimizing your content with subtle messages to clear their fear and doubt hoping you will acquire them one day. 

That is why you have to consider them as a part of the people who are aware of your products and services.

“Acquisition” is basically about the audience who takes your predetermined reactions whether inbound or outbound except clicks and views.

*Activation* (Usage) is the third stage of impact where you make your audience to consume your products or services. This is the stage when you have to make sure they feel the magic in your products. Once they feel the magic, they’re activated to keep using your products and tell others about it. You can also use the first side of the Pareto principle to measure activation. It states that approximately 20% of the audience that is acquired takes action to use your products or services.

*Retention* is the fourth stage of impact when your audience has felt the magic in your products or services and they are stuck with it because it solves their problems in interesting ways they can’t do without. 

At this stage, users will churn if they don’t find your products really useful so you have to keep making sure you solve problems that make them stick around. Don’t forget, approximately 20% of the audience that is activated is retained.

*Referral* is the fifth stage of impact when your audience proudly shares your products and services with their networks to bring them to use them too. You need to make sharing your products easy for your audience and also make sure that you encourage them to do so. Also, approximately 20% of the audience that is retained will refer you to their networks to use your products.

*Revenue* is the sixth stage of impact when you have cleared the doubts and fears of your audience and now pay for your products and services. Now, approximately 20% of the audience that is retained will pay for your products eventually.

You might be wondering why I call all of these stages of impact. It is for you to realize how the success of your products depends on the great experience of your audience and the more you improve at every stage, the more your chance of increasing adoption and revenue.

*Product feedback* — This is the last stage where you get useful information from your customers to improve your products.

### How to measure impact quantitatively and qualitatively

By now, you should have some insights into measuring impact quantitatively. We will take it a bit further. The impact can be measured with reactions it generates – positively or negatively. 

The major reactions as a result of action are predetermined reactions, precautionary reactions, progressive reactions and retrogressive reactions all of which can be measured qualitatively and quantitatively.

***Predetermined reactions*** refer to certain reactions you have selectively chosen or want to get before you even act; then, you expect your action to generate the exact reactions. This means desired reactions should be determined before any DevRel activities take place and then we can compare the expected reactions and the actual reactions. 

It is either your audience that takes you or their predetermined reactions. Anyway, your job is to make them take your predetermined reactions.

To use this effectively, you need to break whatever content you make into components and tag each of the components with desired reactions (quantitative and qualitative). Let’s use an article as a case study. You need to break the article into title, media, body and trigger.

The title and image are meant to trigger curiosity (qualitative) and clicks (quantitative) action in relation to the reach of the post. Then, we can measure how effective it is by sharing it with our audience on different platforms.

The body is, for example, meant to make your audience perceive a sense of awe, ease, excitement or opportunity. The more you’re able to get them to this state, the better the chance of them taking your predetermined reaction which is to click the trigger.

In short, every part of your content, be it articles, presentations or whatever should have reactions or purposes you want them to achieve. Reactions or purposes you want them to achieve could be comments/replies, subscriptions, signups, using of products or payment, and then, you can measure the outcome with both sides of the Pareto principle I explained initially. 

And once they take your predetermined reactions, take their experience to the next level by offering services that give them better experience to retain them.

***Retrogressive reactions*** refer to the reactions that are worse compared to your predetermined reactions. This means your measurement of the quantitative and qualitative parts of your work ends up being worse than you expect. You can use both sides of the Pareto principle to measure retrogressive reactions.

Most of the time, you have retrogressive reactions because your audience is acting based on biases, experiences, beliefs and knowledge which fault or are against you, so in this case, you have to make them feel or see why their claims are solid and lead them to realizing how you or your products have catered for everything they are doubting or scared of.

***Progressive reactions*** refer to the reactions that are better compared to your predetermined reactions. This means you generate more quantitative and qualitative impacts than expected – more comments/replies, subscriptions, payments, referrals and many more.

These reactions show you’re doing what they really appreciate at the moment ( which may change later). Whenever you perceive this kind of reaction, it is best to care for them to keep having great experiences to retain their loyalty.

***Precautionary reactions*** refer to when the reactions of your audience show they are being careful or cautious at the moment. For example, they support you indirectly, subtweet you, and complain indirectly or in non-obvious ways. People react with caution when seeing some good signs in what you do but are yet to get substantial reasons or evidence to vouch for you.

Whenever you perceive this kind of reaction, it is best to provide verifiable evidence factually and emotionally to get them to your side.

Now, how do you use all of these?

You have to use them to see how people react to your content and products and see which reactions get the most desired results in the end so that you can do more of it. 

For example, your content may generate retrogressive reactions and attract a lot of people to your funnel but that may not be favourable if they don’t take your most desired reactions and that is why you have to pay attention to the reaction that brings you the best result and do more of it.


### Hierarchy of reactions/engagements


1st. feedback
2nd. payment
3rd. Interactions in communities
4th. Signups, subscribe
5th. Reply, comment
6th. Read, watch, listen to
7th. Clicks, views, impression


The Hierarchy of Reactions refer to different reactions in their order of importance for the sake of collating trustable and dependable metrics for your business. 

Measuring all of these reactions with both sides of Pareto principle is useful to always have a solid quantitative and qualitative measurement to make your products or services serve your audience better.

Finally, measuring success in DevRel is so much dependent on DevRel budget, purposes, and products’ effectiveness. The effort of DevRel will not materialize if the products they promote are not capable of converting and retaining users so it is essential to keep improving the products until it proves its worth.

## Measuring success

Measuring success is relative and that is why it has to be clearly defined before carrying out DevRel activities and we can adjust the activities after measuring results. 

For this reason, I suggest a kind of agile system in which the two sides of the Pareto principle are used to determine expectation for awareness, acquisition, activation, retention, referral, revenue and feedback.

Doing this makes it easier to set a budget and encourages optimization as it makes it obvious to realize the differences between expectations and actual results.

In conclusion, there are several ways to go about this based on the context of your organization but I provide this so as to give you a headstart. So, feel free to adjust anything in this write-up to suit the context of your organization and operation.

Did you feel the magic in this write-up?

Your reaction here should guide you in selling to developers.