# Why is it hard to sell to developers?

Selling to developers is very hard for four major reasons – openness, reliability, stubbornness and curiosity – all of which revolve around the practicality of software development. 

Developers are the best among the smart, they are very open and highly curious. At first, these reasons may seem odd but you will realize the truth in them soon.

Listen, salespeople tend to be tricky or deceiving in selling but the common ethic of most software developers is openness and it is openness that makes it easy for us to share challenges, experiences and even our faults in public. You would agree with me on this if you’re a developer.

Or have you seen any community that shares things that should be secrets in public like software developers? Now, how is openness makes it hard to sell to developers? Psychologically speaking, if you’re open, you have a high tendency to dislike those who are not straightforward, isn’t it?

Also, developers are very smart people. Many of us have learnt about human psychology and selling by reading widely and watching documentaries and movies. 

All of this experience plus our encounters with salespeople make us always assume salespeople want to trick us and no human being likes to be tricked. For that reason, we hate to give sellers our attention.

Developers are amazingly stubborn in pursuit, so we’re always strongly opinionated. Why do you think we have JavaScript libraries and frameworks that do the same thing basically? 

Why do you think we have DRY, WET and YAGNI? We tend to be stubborn in our thinking or belief and if you don’t have an emotionally and logically convincing product, you will struggle to sell to developers.

Our inherent curiosity makes it very hard to sell software to us and retain us. Many of us are okay with wasting our time and night to build or find out how one shining project works. In short, we like to learn and build our own things. 

Are you even a software developer if you don’t have unfinished side projects? Who doesn’t? 

So you can’t easily sell software products to us by telling or tricking us to buy it. We will rather build our alternative if you make us angry or trick us. And if your product is not really convincingly useful, curiosity will take us to the next shining things.

That is the reality.

Why do you think developers are open? It is because if we’re not, software will expose us with ease. Software exposes marketing gimmicks easily because developers have to go through some experience while using them and developers are highly skeptical of software they have not used practically.

So developers rarely pay for software without experiencing it judging from experience. All this is why using marketing gimmicks without good experience rarely works in selling to developers. 

And it is the responsibility of DevRel to make sure your products work and achieve their purposes. They need to work to make sure your users feel the magic in your products the first time they use them. 

If they don't, DevRel needs to keep providing information to the stakeholders, abstract or create documentation and other forms of content to make the right audience feel the magic in your products. 

"The great liability of the engineer compared to men of other professions is that his works are out in the open where all can see them. 

His acts, step by step, are in hard substance. He cannot bury his mistakes in the grave like the doctors. 

He cannot argue them into thin air or blame the judge like the lawyers. He cannot, like the architects, cover his failures with trees and vines. 

He cannot, like the politicians, screen his shortcomings by blaming his opponents and hope the people will forget. 

The engineer simply cannot deny he did it. If his works do not work, he is damned." - Herbert Hoover, American engineer and politician

