# Forming Relationships like a professional

Forming relationships with developers is at the heart of Developer Relations and without it, you would struggle to reach developers and make them buy from you eventually. 

Developers have several communities offline and online. You need to be part of those communities to support their operations.

Doing this is mainly to have genuine relationships with them. See, having genuine relationships with those communities is so important for continuity than marketing your products to them. Why am I saying this? Making the interests of the communities the core of your relationships with them, helps you a lot.

Having strong relationships with developer communities will help you in distributing your content. The communities have gained the attention and trust of several developers so you don’t have to do it yourself and that simply means you have crushed the A (attention) in AIDA (Attention, Interest, Desire and Action).

Then, how do you get the interest of developers? Listen, everyone says it is hard to sell to developers and that is true because everyone ignores developers’ ethics – openness, trust and reliability – because they think selling tricks are infallible.

Developers actually have no stable interest; we’re too curious. Even expert developers with several years of experience in watching many products fail will still end up checking out another shining object behind the scene. If you’re a software developer, you’re probably guilty of that. Well, that is okay and needed to succeed in software development.

So to get the interest of a software developer, you must be a master in eliciting curiosity. That is all it takes to make almost any software developer interested. It is easy to make someone interested in your write-up by giving it a title like “How I built a SaaS in one night and sold $5,000, 000 worth of copies the next week”  but it won’t take you far.

It will gain quick traffic but it is sometimes bad for business except you help people build and sell software. My point is, to make sure you elicit interest with the purpose of your products in mind. 

Don’t get me wrong; that kind of topic is great to make your brand known but it mostly creates an unintended view of your products.

How do you elicit curiosity in developers?

Yeah, let’s do this. There are several ways to elicit curiosity in developers and they are listed below: