
# How to make developers buy

***“I’ve learned that people will forget what you said, people will forget what you did, but people will never forget how you make them feel” – Maya Angelou

What is your product making developers feel? That is what matters most.

Making developers buy your products is not as hard as you think if you don’t try to sell to us. You need to avoid the word “sell” and any marketing lingo (except when they elicit curiosity) because they may deny you the chance to get our attention.

Please and please, don’t “sell” to us.

Instead, lead us to buy your products. It is very interesting to lead developers to buy your products and I am going to show you how to do it step by step in this write-up.

See, you can’t make us buy anything unless we’re already willing to buy it. If we’re not willing to buy your products, please don’t try to force it by appealing to our interests and desires like salespeople always do because we will not stick around for long or even buy anything in the end. You will just waste money and effort.

Did you just say why won’t you buy it?

Look, appealing to our feelings with words is not the way to lead us to buy because our job is more practical than emotional. You need to make us feel the magic in your products and you can only win us if the magic we feel practically from your products has never been felt from our current stacks.

This is what I mean.

Your product (not you or your words) must make us feel the problem it solves and how amazing it is. If you are a developer that used Bootstrap, SASS, Tailwind CSS, React, Next, ChatGPT, Laravel or Ruby on Rails early; you should understand what I mean by feeling the magic.

Don’t just tell us the problem your product solves; let your product make us feel it by itself. Let me explain:

Your products (not just you) should make us feel:

Wow, it is so fast!
Woot! So cheaper than its usefulness.
Holy cow, how does it make the features or tasks extremely easy?
What? It is so easy to learn and delivers the best result.
Amazing, this is magic.
Oh no, it eased my stress?
Yeah, it saves me time.
Hurray! This process is now amazingly fast.
Bravo! So sucure.

Your product should make us feel that our problem is solved. If it doesn’t, you will struggle to sell it to us.

From my personal experience, I had been writing PHP before knowing Laravel but when I used Laravel for the first time, I said “I am not going to be using PHP without Laravel except if it is a necessity or another framework makes me feel a better vibe practically”.

Laravel made the features that usually took about two weeks to take days with its conventions and packages.

Besides, I was using Angular 1 before I knew about React and when I used React, I felt the magic and I knew I was not going back. I was able to get around it in three days. So easy. 

TailwindCSS also made me feel the magic recently. When I used it, it was easy to build beautiful pages just by using “class utilities” without stress and its documentation is so simple.

If your products don’t make us or yourself feel that magic, it is hard to get developers to stick to it. Even if you get us to signup, we won’t stick to it. Then, how do you make developers feel the magic in your products?

