## More thought on creating swags to engage developers

Swags are mostly meant to promote a company's brand, so they’re mostly objects with the company's logo. This way of sharing swags creates incomplete awareness for your products as far as I am concerned. Awareness is only complete not when your audience knows you exist but when they also know you’re important.

To achieve this level of awareness, my proposition here is that swags should be produced for other purposes than to promote your brand; they should also be use to educate, encourage networking and induce user acquisition. This approach is interesting as it makes gathering metrics easier in DevRel. 

Let me give you some insights:

*Credits:* Create credit tickets or cards that give your audience some preferential treatments they can enjoy by visiting your platform. If you use this appropriately, you can acquire users and still have something to measure. 

*Swags:* Swags should not only have logos, they can also have the title of a tutorial and a url to check it out. Then you can decide what to do with them when they visit you.

*Networkers:* This is kind of content or swag that is meant to encourage networking at a conference, online or somewhere else. One way or another, you have to make sure they bring people back to you. For example, I think this write-up is designed for that purpose – to basically network with DevRel people in the industry.

*Educators:* This is the swag that is purposefully designed to educate people about any subject. It is effective for business if it brings people to learn on your platform. Just make sure your topics are of great relevance and importance to them.

*Plugins/add-ons/packages:* This is a kind of swag that is designed purposefully to share links to some useful packages related to your niche and it can even be the packages your company creates.

*Software/Applications:* This swag is meant to present some specific audience with some useful applications they may not know about but are very useful to help them be productive.