Identification: 1) They identify the marketing audience, the target audience and the right audience. 

This is the first job of DevRel because all efforts to form good relationships with developers and make them want your products will not tally with the business expectation (which is revenue) if you are not addressing each group of the audience the right way. 

All audiences are important because they serve different purposes. 

What is the right way to deal with the marketing audience, the target audience and the right audience? This is what to understand:

The marketing audience refers to those who use your products for educational purposes or other purposes which might not yield direct revenue but promote your products eventually. 

This audience is important as they create a bandwagon that ends up bringing you the target audience and the right audience. Organize them into a community of users who create add-ons, tutorials and others that reveal the magic of your products. 

The target audience refers to the set of people you think you’re solving problems for. The reality is many of them will not buy your products for reasons. Maybe they don't see any reason to jump ship, they're scared of lock-in or they can't just feel the magic.

The right audience refers to the audience who have felt the magic in your products, are willing to and are able to pay.

The way you deal with each type of audience is somewhat different. The marketing audience has no reason or ability to pay even if they love your products. 

For this reason, it is important to make sure they achieve a marketing or community purpose for your products. In short, make sure they create a bandwagon effect that influences the target audience and the right audience to join.

The target audience needs to feel a kind of specific magic in your products to encourage them to jump ship. They need some reasons. So let them feel the magic in your products – let them feel the reasons.

Improve your products until your target audience can feel the reason in your products. Again, let them feel (not rationalize) the reasons.

Also, the right audience needs to be converted and cared for. They have felt the magic, they are willing and able to buy. All you have to do is to lead them to buy.

Listen, you can't really make anyone buy what they don't want to buy, especially developers. Now that they want to buy, you have to do something to make them act as quickly as possible. 

That means giving them incentives, fair pricing, deadline, discount, FOMO or anything to encourage them to act fast.

And if your company has a marketing/sales team, figuring out how to make developers act fast is their job, DevRel only needs to cross-check and test to see if they feel the magic or are repelled by the offering.

You can continue to shape your offering until developers stick around.

Finally, your content, distribution or presentation should be tagged with stage, audience and purpose (SAP). Doing so forces you to think or work out how to link them to the next stage without selling. Remember, the keyword here is "without selling".
